Article II. Membership.
1.There shall be three classes of Membership in the JPPA: Registered Members, Associate Members, and Junior Members.
2.A Registered Member is a registered PA elector who has recorded a party affiliation of “Justice Party”, or “Justice Party of PA”, on a voter registration form filed with Pennsylvania Department of State (DOS) or Election Registrars in PA Counties, as indicated by Pennsylvania’s Statewide and county voter registration records. Registered Members are full participants in JPPA decision-making and shall each have a vote in the process of nominating each Justice Party candidate in whose election district they reside.
3.An Associate Member is a registered PA electors who has recorded a party affiliation with a party other than the Justice Party that is recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major party, and have communicated to the JPPA Membership Secretary that they affiliate with that major party solely for the purpose of being able to vote in primary elections and that they otherwise identify with the Justice Party of PA and its political principles and values. Because they may vote in the primary election of another party, Associate Members are prohibited from voting on the nomination of JPPA candidates, but are otherwise full participants in JPPA decision-making. JPPA shall only have Associate Members so long as JPPA is not recognized by the Commonwealth of PA as a major party. 
4.A Junior Member is a person not yet of voting age but at least thirteen years of age, who has communicated to the Membership Secretary of the JPPA that they identify with the Justice Party of PA and its political principles and values. Not being of voting age, Junior Members are prohibited from having a vote in the nomination of JPPA candidates, prohibited from having a vote in election of JPPA State Committee Members, and prohibited from serving as JPPA State Committee Members or on the Steering Committee. Other than these three prohibitions they are full participants in JPPA decision-making.
5.No person may be excluded from membership in the JPPA based on national origin, race, gender, sexual orientation, religious practices or lack thereof. No person shall be excluded from membership in the JPPA based on age, except that persons not yet of voting age may not be either Registered or Associate Members, and no person under the age of thirteen may be a Junior Member. A person who is of voting age must be registered to vote in Pennsylvania to be a Member.
6.Membership Dues. The JPPA shall not assign, levy, or collect any membership dues.
