Article IV. Justice Party State Committee 
1.The general supervision, regulation, and direction of the statewide affairs of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania shall be vested in the State Committee. All other JPPA committees shall be subordinate to it.
2.The State Committee shall be a body of representatives, known as State Committee Members, elected by the membership of JPPA. Each County Committee district shall elect a number of State Committee Members to represent the JPPA Members of their district in JPPA. 
3.Representation. The number of State Committee Members each County Committee district may elect (see Article IV, Section 4) shall be based on the registration or enrollment of Members in each County Committee’s district as of the date of the General Election of the immediately preceding year. Each district shall be allotted one State Committee Member for every five one-thousandths, (i.e. .005, half of one percent, 0.5%), or major fraction thereof, of the total statewide JPPA Membership, excluding Junior Members, that reside in the district, provided that each district shall be allotted at least one State Committee Representative even if they do not have a major fraction of five one-thousandths of the Membership.
4.Election. Election of State Committee Members shall occur every two years, with one electing being the year when the Governor is elected. 
5.The manner in which State Committee Representatives are elected shall depend on whether JPPA is recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major party and may thus participate in primary elections or not.
  A. If JPPA is recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major political party and may thus participate in primary elections, election of State Committee Members shall occur during the Primary Election, every two years.
    i. Each County Committee District shall consist of exactly one Pennsylvania County. Justice Party members shall vote as part of the county in which they reside.
    ii. After the primary election State Committee Members shall be seated based on the certified results of these primary elections.
  B. If JPPA is not recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major political party and is thus unable to participate in primary elections, election of State Committee Members shall occur at the meeting of each Justice Party County Committee that occurs closest to the date of the Primary Election.
    i. Each County Committee District may include one or multiple whole counties with a single County Committee regardless of the number of counties.
    ii. The date, time, and location of each local meeting shall be announced to the Membership in the district of the County Committee at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting.
    iii. After the meeting, the officers of the County Committee shall communicate to the JPPA General Secretary notification of such election and certification of the names and addresses of the State Committee Members elected. No State Committee Member shall be seated without having been so certified by a County Committee.
    iv. A County Committee that fails to hold a meeting to elect State Committee Members goes without State Committee Members until they hold a meeting for that purpose. No State Committee Member may be elected without holding such a meeting.
  C. The term of office for State Committee Members shall be two (2) years.
  D. Where a district is allotted more than one State Committee Member, the number of male and the number of female State Committee Members elected shall not differ by more than one.
    i. When one State Committee Member, the candidate with the most votes shall be elected, regardless of gender. 
    ii. When an even number is to be elected the number of males and females shall be divided equally. 
    iii. When a plural odd number is to be elected the equal division principle shall apply to all but the last candidate elected, and the last elected will be the remaining candidate of either gender with the highest number of votes. 
    iv. Ballot instructions shall vary according to the number to be elected. E.g. “Vote for up to four (4). The two (2) females and two (2) males with the highest number of votes shall be elected.”, or “Vote for up to five (5). The two (2) females and two (2) males with the highest number of votes shall be elected and the person with the next highest number of votes shall also be elected.”
6.	Any vacancy in the office of State Committee Member may be filled by the County Committee of the district that the vacant seat represents, as determined by its bylaws. The replacement shall serve the remainder of the term of the office.
7.	Meetings. The State Committee shall meet in person at least twice per year, at such date, hour, and place as shall be designated either in a previous meeting of the State Committee or by the Steering Committee. The State Committee may meet as many additional times during the year, in person, or via electronic media, as shall be expedient to address party business.
  A. The first in-person meeting of each year should occur prior to or very soon after the first date on which nomination papers may be circulated to facilitate the nomination of candidates for elected office.
    i. If JPPA is not recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major party, and its candidates are thus required to obtain ballot access via signatures collected on nomination papers, the State Committee shall at the first meeting of the year consider and vote on the nomination of candidates for public office, whatever other business may be on the agenda.
    ii. At the first meeting of the year, the Steering Committee shall present an annual budget to the State Committee which the State Committee may approve or reject , any and all spending items, on a line item basis, whatever other business may be on the agenda.
  B. In years when State Committee Members are elected, an in-person meeting should occur not fewer than fifteen (15) nor more than sixty (60) days after the Primary Election, to facilitate organizing the new State Committee. Whatever other business may be on the agenda notwithstanding, the State Committee shall at this meeting elect a Steering Committee of Officers for the year, and delegates to represent JPPA to the Justice Party of the United States.
  C. The Steering Committee may schedule and call a meeting of the State Committee not previously scheduled by the State Committee.
  D. Any group of State Committee Members representing at least one-eighth of the JPPA Membership may schedule and call a meeting of State Committee not previously scheduled by the State Committee.
  E. The scheduled date, time, and location of State Committee meetings shall be announced at least thirty (30) days prior to each meeting and the agenda of any State Committee meeting should include announcing the date, time, and location of the next scheduled State Committee Meeting.
  F. The presence of a majority of State Committee Members shall be required to constitute a quorum. For in-person meetings “presence” shall mean physical presence in the meeting room when a quorum check is made. For meetings via electronic media “presence” shall mean participation on the conference call or via the electronic media when a quorum check is made.
  G. If a meeting fails a quorum check, no business may be conducted nor decisions made until such time as quorum is obtained.
  H. Each State Committee Member shall have one vote in all matters of business, except that only Registered Members shall have a vote in nominating (or endorsing) candidates for public office.
  I.  A motion of ordinary business shall require the votes in support by a majority of the total number, present plus absent, of State Committee Members to carry, i.e. to be approved or “pass”.
8.	Authority to Nominate Candidates
  A. If JPPA is recognized as a major party by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and thus Justice Party candidates obtain ballot access by gathering signatures on nomination petitions and participating in a primary election, Justice Party candidates shall be nominated via Pennsylvania’s Primary Election.
  B. If JPPA is not recognized as a major party by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and Justice Party candidates are thus required to obtain ballot access via signatures collected on nomination papers, the State Committee shall hold the exclusive authority to nominate Justice Party candidates for federal and state office within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
    i. The State Committee may nominate candidates for offices to be voted for by the electors of the Commonwealth at-large, including but not limited to Governor, Lt. Governor, and U.S. Senator.
    ii. The State Committee may nominate candidates for the offices of Representative in U.S. Congress; and for PA legislative and judicial offices, including but not limited to Representative in the General Assembly, Senator in the General Assembly, and Judge of Common Pleas; and for any other elected offices in Pennsylvania whose district includes geographic areas represented by multiple County Committees. The State Committee may only nominate for these offices candidates who have already been endorsed by at least one County Committee whose geographic area includes some portion of the district of the office for which the candidate is to be nominated.
    iii. Within five (5) business days after the nomination of candidates for public office, the Chair and Secretary of JPPA shall deliver to the Secretary of the Commonwealth Authorizations of Candidacy listing the offices for which candidates have been nominated and the names and addresses of candidates. Such certifications shall also be delivered to county Boards of Election where candidates for local offices have been nominated. The Secretary of the Commonwealth and the county Boards of Elections shall not certify the nomination of any Justice Party candidate for whom such Authorization has not been received.
