Article V. State Committee Officers: Steering Committee
1.The daily business of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania shall be executed by the Steering Committee, comprised of nine elected officers of the State Committee: Chair, General Secretary, Treasurer, Fundraising Secretary, Media Secretary, Membership Secretary, and three At Large Officers.
2.Collectively the elected officers of the JPPA, serving as a Steering Committee, shall:
  A.endeavor to serve the will of the State Committee;
  B.draft a proposed annual budget to be presented to the State Committee for approval or rejection, on a line item basis, at the first in-person meeting of each calendar year;
  C.coordinate the scheduling of State Committee Meetings;
  D.oversee the activities of all committees other than the State Committee;
  E.mediate any dispute between or among County Committees, if asked to do so by one or more of the County Committees involved;
  F.perform other duties as may be delegated to it by the State Committee.
3.Individually, the duties of the JPPA Officers: 
  A.The Chair shall be the Chief Executive of the Party, executing the business of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania, and also shall: 
    1.preside at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings,
    2.coordinate and direct the activities of other officers, the Steering Committee they constitute, and the various other committees,
    3.be the premier spokesperson representing the JPPA in interaction with the public, Commonwealth officials, and other organizations,
    4.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions.
  B.The General Secretary shall be the second-ranking officer of the JPPA, assisting and advising the Chair in executing party business, and also shall:
    1.take and keep minutes of all meetings of the State Committee and Steering Committee, and oversee party correspondence, 
    2.keep the JPPA organizational records, including past and present bylaws of the party and its affiliated County Committees, minutes of past meetings, and records of formal party correspondence with outside organizations,
    3.oversee the party P.O. Box and telephone accounts,
    4.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions
    5.In the absence of the Chair at any meeting of the State Committee or Steering Committee, the Secretary shall preside over the election by such Committee of an interim Chair who shall serve for the duration of the meeting, or until the actual Chair returns.
  C.The Treasurer shall be the third-ranking officer of the JPPA, assisting and advising the Chair in executing party business, and also shall:
    1.keep the financial records of the Justice Party,
    2.deposit funds received,
    3.issue payments authorized by the State Committee,
    4.file in a timely manner whatever financial reports are required of the party by state and federal governments,
    5.oversee party bank accounts, credit accounts, and any political action committees (PACs) the party may have, 
    6.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions.
  D.The Fundraising Secretary shall assist and advise the Chair in executing party business, and also shall:
    1.coordinate party fundraising efforts,
    2.maintain a list of donors with records of contributions,
    3.assist the Treasurer in maintaining financial records and filing financial reports
    4.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions.
  E.The Media Secretary shall assist and advise the Chair in executing party business, and also shall:
    1.coordinate press releases, party literature, and advertising,
    2.manage the party’s public image,
    3.oversee the party’s webpage and social media presence
    4.arrange media events, serve as JPPA liaison to the media, and be a spokesperson for the Justice Party, subordinate only to the Chair in representing the party to Commonwealth officials, the public, and other organizations;
    5.assist the General Secretary in keeping records of press releases, party literature, and other media records
    6.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions.
  F.The Membership Secretary shall assist and advise the Chair in executing party business, and also shall:
    1.oversee and implement strategies to increase JPPA membership,
    2.maintain a database of membership records,
    3.request and receive updated voter registration data from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania at least once per year,
    4.serve as a liaison in sharing voter registration data with Justice Party County Committees and advising them on recruiting voters to join JPPA.
    5.be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee 
  G.The three At-Large Officers shall assist and advise the other Steering Committee Members in executing party business, and also shall be entitled to vote at State Committee and Steering Committee meetings on all questions.
4.Option for Shared Database. If desired and convenient, the membership records of the Membership Secretary, and donor records of the Fundraising Secretary, may be part of general party database maintained by the Steering Committee, with these two officers , and optionally others, sharing responsibility for it. 
5.Election of Steering Committee. In years when new State Committee Members are elected, members of the State Committee shall, at the first in-person meeting held after the Primary Election, held to facilitate reorganization of the State Committee, elect nine officers constituting a steering committee. 
  A.There shall be at least three male and at least three female officers elected. No more than six people on the steering committee may be of the same gender.
  B.The Chair, General Secretary, and Treasurer may not all be of the same gender. There must be at least one male and one female among the three highest ranking officers of the JPPA.
  C.If an election yields a result that violates either of these two gender mix rules, the results of that election must be voided and re-run until it yields a result that is congruent with the gender mix rules.
  D.JPPA Steering Committee Officers shall serve a term of approximately two (2) years, until their successor is elected at the in-person meeting held after the next primary election in which new State Committee Members are elected.
6.Vacancies that may occur in any of the Steering Committee offices between elections may be filled by majority vote of the State Committee for the remainder of the unexpired term, in accordance with Article V, Section C, and other JPPA rules.
7.The State Committee shall have the authority to remove from office, by majority vote in a recall election, any officer of the State Committee.
8.Meetings. The Steering Committee shall meet and/or communicate with one another with whatever frequency and via whatever media they deem appropriate and sufficient to carry out the business of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania, but not less frequently than once per month.
  A.A two-thirds supermajority of Steering Committee members shall be required to constitute a quorum. No business may be conducted if a quorum check fails until such time as quorum is achieved.
  B.The Steering Committee shall endeavor to reach consensus on all decisions it considers, but if consensus cannot be reached, decisions may be made by a vote, requiring a two-thirds majority, i.e. at least six votes out of nine.
  C.Whenever the Steering Committee shall make a decision by voting, each member of the Steering Committee shall have an equal vote.
  D.The Steering Committee may invite other people to participate in their meetings as they see fit, but only elected Officers may vote.
  E.Any decision made by the Steering Committee may be subject to State Committee approval, if the State Committee wishes to consider it, and may be countermanded by a majority vote of the State Committee members.
