Article VII. Subordinate Committees    
1.Authority. The State Committee may create and establish advisory and auxiliary subordinate committees as they deem appropriate, and delegate to them authority to execute specific varieties of State Committee business.  These subordinate committees serve at the pleasure of the State, which may terminate them at any time.
  A.Subordinate committees may be created for a preset period of time, for a specific ad hoc purpose upon the completion of which they will cease to exist, or may be created with the intention of being on-going standing committees.
  B.Subcommittees shall conduct only such business and exercise such authority as is formally delegated to them by the state committee. 
  C.The ultimate authority of the State Committee to decide JPPA policy may not be delegated to any subcommittee. All business conducted by subcommittees shall be subject to the approval of the State Committee.
2.Purposes. Specific subcommittees may include, but are not limited to:
  A.Administrative Committee: Supports and assists the General Secretary, archives organizational documents, orients new State Committee Members, handles personnel issues, and conducts support functions.
  B.Budget & Finance Committee:  Supports and assists the Treasurer, particularly in drafting and proposing an annual budget.
  C.Fundraising Committee:  Supports and assists the Fundraising Secretary, organizing fundraising initiatives and soliciting contributions.
  D.Communications Committee: Supports and assists the Media Secretary, drafting and distributing press releases, maintaining a party speakers bureau, if any, party press kits, and a database of media contacts.
  E.Membership Committee: Supports and assists the Membership Secretary, recruits new voters to affiliate with JPPA, and acts as liaison with Justice Party County Committees, and campus Justice Party groups.  
  F.Campaign Committee:  Recruits & supports political candidates, oversees vetting of candidates, provides campaign expertise and training, assists JPPA candidates to get elected to public office, and proposes plans for allocation of financial and organizational resources to candidates.
  G.Ballot Access Committee: Coordinates efforts to obtain ballot access for JPPA candidates.
  H.Meeting Committee: plans semi-annual meetings.
