Article VIII. County Committees.
1.Geographic Organization. The area of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall be divided into a set of mutually exclusive districts, each of which shall consist of the whole geographic area of one or more PA Counties, and which shall have a corresponding Justice Party County Committee that represents the registered Justice Party voters who reside in that district.
  A.If JPPA is not recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major party and thus does not participate in PA Primary Elections, each district may consist of one or multiple geographically contiguous counties that share a single County Committee. [Note: The purpose of this rule is while the JPPA is still small and growing, to allow counties that may have few Members to partner with other counties, so that they collectively have sufficient Members to have a functioning County Committee, and to improve the likelihood that JPPA Members in small counties will still have formal representation on the State Committee.] 
    i.No County Committee may consist of more than one county unless those counties’ collective population does not exceed two percent (2%) of the total population of Pennsylvania, and the percentage of Justice Party of PA Members residing there does not exceed two percent (2%) of all JPPA Members.
    ii.The State Committee shall retain ultimate authority to adjudicate and amend the boundaries of County Committee districts in congruence with these rules whenever and wherever multiple County Committees lay claim to the same county or counties. 
  B.If JPPA is currently recognized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a major party and JPPA participates in PA Primary Elections, each district shall consist of one county and each county shall have a separate district and separate County Committee. 
2.Purpose. The general supervision, regulation, and direction of countywide and local affairs of the Justice Party in each Pennsylvania County shall be vested in the recognized County Committee for that county. Each recognized County Committee shall be the County-level affiliate of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania.
3.Membership. The Registered, Associate, and Junior Membership of each local party shall consist of the Registered, Associate, and Junior Members, respectively, of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania who reside in the geographic area represented by the County Committee. The bylaws of each County Committee shall explicitly state that the County Committee represents the members of a local Justice Party so defined.
4.Recognition of County Committees. The State Committee shall have the authority to recognize County Committees. A recognized County Committee is the County-level affiliate of the JPPA. Where there is no recognized County Committee to represent a County Committee District, the district shall be described as having a “Potential County Committee”
  A.A County Committee that has been recognized by the State Committee is required to file a notarized copy of their rules or bylaws with the Board of Elections of their County and to file a copy of the same, certified as having been received by their county Board of Elections, with the State Committee General Secretary within ninety (90) days of being recognized
  B.As prerequisites to being recognized by the State Committee, and to maintaining such recognition, each County Committee shall satisfy the following criteria to the satisfaction of the State Committee: 
    i.The County Committee shall have at least five active members
    ii.The County Committee shall have at least three officers, actively serving as Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer, and have provided contact information for them to the JPPA General Secretary
    iii.The County Committee shall have met within the past year, and intend to meet at least once every six months
    iv.The County Committee shall have written bylaws or rules that are congruent with these rules of the Justice Party of Pennsylvania.
    v.The conduct of the County Committee shall be consistent with the principles of the Justice Party
    vi.The County Committee shall have at least one elected State Committee Member in attendance at each in-person meeting of the State Committee, or else shall have submitted an acceptable explanation to the General Secretary of why they are unable to have an elected State Committee Member attend the meeting.
  C.The State Committee shall have the authority to revoke recognition of any County Committees that fails to meet the criteria in Section 4.B above
    i.The State Committee may, by vote, issue a formal warning to the County Committee that its recognition may be revoked if it does not correct the violation. The General Secretary shall communicate such warning to the County Committee in writing
    ii.If the violation is egregious or the County Committee has been warned within the year, the State Committee may, by vote, revoke recognition from the County Committee. The General Secretary shall communicate the revocation to the County Committee in writing, and deliver written notice to the local Board(s) of Election that the County Committee no longer has authority to nominate Justice Party candidates.
5.Authority to Nominate Candidates.
  A.If JPPA is recognized as a major party by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and the JPPA thus participates in PA primary elections, Justice Party candidates for county and local offices shall be nominated by the primary election process
  B.If JPPA is not recognized as a major party by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and thus Justice Party candidates are required to obtain ballot access via signatures collected on nomination papers, each recognized Justice Party County Committee shall have authority to endorse or nominate candidates for elected office as set forth below.
  C.A recognized County Committee shall have the authority to endorse, for subsequent nomination by the State Committee (as set forth in Article IV, Section 8.B(ii) of these rules), candidates for Representative in U.S. Congress, and for Commonwealth of Pennsylvania legislative and judicial offices, including but not limited to Representative in the General Assembly, Senator in the General Assembly, and Judge of Common Pleas, if the district of the office for which the candidate is to be nominated is wholly or partly within the district represented by the County Committee.
  D.A recognized County Committee shall also have the authority to directly nominate candidates for elected County or Municipal offices if the district of the office for which the candidate is to be nominated is wholly within the district represented by the County Committee.
  E.After the State Committee nominates candidates for public office, the Chair or Secretary of the County Committee shall deliver to the county Boards of Elections in counties where local candidates have been nominated Certifications of Candidacy listing the offices for which candidates have been nominated and the names and addresses of such candidates. Certifications may be supplemented at any time prior to the last date on which nomination papers may be filed.
  F.County Boards of Elections shall not accept nor certify as a nominee of the Justice Party any candidate for whom they have either not received a Certification of Nomination from either the JPPA State Committee or a recognized County Committee affiliate of the JPPA. 
  G.Local Committees. County Committees may authorize Local Committees to represent Justice Party members in any contiguous geographic area that is wholly within the county (or counties) represented by the County Committee, and is a subset thereof, as a subordinate committee of the County Committee, if they deem it desirable to do so.
